Knight Lore Infinity Map Generation Algorithm
=============================================

Purpose
-------

The procedural map generator provides logical Knight Lore rooms outside the
original game. The original ZX Spectrum game still sees only a small physical
five-room cross. JavaScript asks the generator for the logical center room and
its four cardinal neighbours, compiles those logical rooms into original
Knight Lore compact location entries, and writes them into emulator memory.

The generator lives in:

    SRC/runtime/knightlore-mapgen.js

The current algorithm name reported by stats() is:

    chunk-connected-v4

The generator is deterministic. Given the same options, world seed, and
coordinate, it must always return the same room payload.


Coordinate Model
----------------

Logical rooms use integer coordinates:

    (x, y)

The Stage 7 runtime begins at:

    (0, 0)

Moving east increments x. Moving west decrements x. Moving north increments y.
Moving south decrements y.

The coordinate plane is algorithmically unbounded. There is no stored 2D array
of the whole world. Rooms are generated on demand and cached by the runtime.

Negative coordinates are handled with floor division and positive modulo, so
chunk boundaries behave consistently on both sides of the origin.


Important Options
-----------------

Current defaults:

    chunkSize: 8
    worldSeed: 0x4b1d1984
    targetRoomDensityPercent: 50
    rectangularCandidatePercent: 84
    styleRegionChunks: 2
    branchCorridorAttempts: 64
    branchCorridorMaxLength: 5
    questSectorQuestPercent: 100
    questReachabilityMarginChunks: 2

The density target was chosen from the original game:

    original map: 128 rooms in a 16x16 grid = 50% occupied cells

The rectangle throttle was tuned against the original room dump:

    original rectangular rooms: 58 / 128 = 45.31%

The throttle is applied only after a room has a legal rectangular exit mask.
It does not permit long-side rectangular doors.


Chunk Generation
----------------

The plane is split into deterministic 8x8 chunks.

For each chunk, the generator creates four edge connectors:

- west edge connector;
- east edge connector;
- south edge connector;
- north edge connector.

Connector positions are chosen with shared edge seeds. This means two
neighbouring chunks agree about where the cross-chunk connection is allowed to
exist. For example, the east connector of chunk (cx, cy) and the west connector
of chunk (cx + 1, cy) are derived from the same edge coordinate.

Each chunk also has a deterministic hub cell. The generator carves paths from
all four edge connectors to the hub. Each path is an L-shaped path, with the
horizontal-first versus vertical-first choice determined by the hash.

This gives every chunk a connected core and keeps neighbouring chunks connected
to one another.


Forced Origin Rooms
-------------------

The origin and its four immediate cardinal neighbours are always present:

    (0, 0)
    (1, 0)
    (-1, 0)
    (0, 1)
    (0, -1)

This guarantees that the initial Stage 7 physical cross can be compiled
immediately and that the starting room has all four logical neighbours
available for manual testing.

The logical origin `(0, 0)` is an authored override rather than a normal
procedural room. It uses the original room `0x88` eight-block floor frame:

    type 0x00 at (2,6,0), (1,5,0), (5,6,0), (6,5,0),
                (6,2,0), (5,1,0), (1,2,0), (2,1,0)

This keeps the original cauldron-room silhouette while leaving the central
spawn/walk lanes clear.


Corridor Branch Growth
----------------------

The first procedural version added branch rooms by growing from any adjacent
cell. That made the map too dense and produced many T-junctions and four-way
rooms. Rectangular rooms were rare because exact straight corridors were rare.

The current version grows short corridor branches instead.

The branch algorithm repeatedly:

1. finds existing cells that can extend into an empty neighbouring cell;
2. rejects an empty cell if adding it would touch existing rooms other than
   the branch's entry cell;
3. chooses a start deterministically from the candidate list;
4. extends in one direction for a deterministic length;
5. stops when the chunk reaches its target room count or no safe extension
   remains.

This preserves more one-cell-wide corridors, which produces a map closer to
Knight Lore's original mix of corridors, junctions, and missing cells.


Quest Sector Layer
------------------

Stage 8 adds deterministic quest-sector metadata on top of the chunk topology.
The first version uses the same 8x8 grid as chunk generation.

Each generated sector currently has:

- one cauldron anchor room;
- one charm anchor room;
- one required charm type from seven original charm types;
- difficulty metadata;
- style metadata;
- JavaScript-side persistent quest state.

The quest-sector API lives on the procedural map:

    getQuestSectorAt(x, y)
    getQuestRoomInfoAt(x, y)
    getQuestReachabilityAt(x, y)

The cauldron and charm anchors belong to the same sector, but the route between
them is allowed to leave the sector and re-enter through neighbouring sectors.
This keeps the sectors integrated into the wider world instead of forcing every
8x8 sector to be internally self-contained.

Charm identity is global. If a player already has the required charm type from
another sector, that charm should be usable at the current sector's cauldron.
The local charm anchor is a nearby fair source, not an enforced sector-bound
item.

Corrected charm-type model:

- Knight Lore has seven quest charm types, represented by original sprites
  0x60..0x66.
- The original 14-object objective requests those seven charm types twice.
- 0x67 is life/extra life, not a quest charm, and must not be selected as a
  sector's required charm.
- Deterministic sector generation should therefore choose required charm type
  with a 0..6 result, for example `hash(sectorX, sectorY, worldSeed) % 7`.
  Repetition/ordering rules can still create a 14-delivery rhythm if desired,
  but they must not create 14 distinct charm identities.
- The current generator emits required charm metadata as an object with:
  - `id`: 0..6;
  - `sprite`: the original object sprite, 0x60..0x66;
  - `label`: the player/debug name, such as `diamond/gem` or
    `chalice/vase`.

Anchor placement:

- cauldrons are biased toward the existing chunk hub;
- charms are biased farther away from the cauldron;
- anchors are chosen from existing generated cells when possible;
- anchor cells are marked as existing so metadata cannot point at a missing
  generated room.

Stage 8.1 adds a cached reachability diagnostic. It runs a bounded breadth-first
search over the same generated room graph used by normal exits and reports:

- whether the cauldron anchor exists;
- whether the charm anchor exists;
- whether both anchors are in the same bounded traversable component;
- path length;
- visited/searched room counts;
- search bounds and margin.

The default margin is:

    questReachabilityMarginChunks: 2

The diagnostic is a practical proof around the current sector, not a full
mathematical proof over the infinite plane. The generator's global connectivity
assumption remains the chunk invariant: each chunk carves all four edge
connectors to its hub, and neighbouring chunks derive shared connector
positions from the same edge seed.

Current confidence level:

- the implementation checks reachability by running the same graph search over
  generated room existence that normal exits use;
- an 81-sector scan, covering sectors from (-4, -4) to (4, 4), found zero
  cauldron/charm reachability failures;
- manual play also crossed several sectors without observing a failure.

This makes a reachability failure very unlikely under the current generator
rules, but it is still not a formal proof for the infinite map. A full proof
would need to reason mathematically about every possible chunk and neighbour
combination, which is outside the current project goals. The runtime
diagnostic remains useful because it checks the sector the player is actually
in.

Stage 8.2A adds quest-room dressing intent as metadata only. When a generated
room is the sector cauldron anchor or charm anchor, its logical payload gains a
`questDressing` object and a distinct label:

    quest-cauldron:x,y:biome-id
    quest-charm:x,y:biome-id

The current Phase A dressing profiles are deliberately descriptive rather than
mechanical:

- cauldron rooms are marked as open, calm, readable, and low hazard;
- charm rooms are marked as slightly guarded or puzzle-like;
- both profiles say that their visual marker is diagnostics-only;
- `gameplayBytes` remains `unchanged`;
- no original object records, item slots, cauldron state, wizard state,
  inventory state, or charm-order memory are touched.

The dressing metadata also records the future clearance rule: visual phases
must keep the actual player entry side clear. The old central spawn-clearance
restriction remains mandatory only for the true logical starting room `(0, 0)`,
not for every generated room.

Stage 8.2B turns that intent into a conservative visible in-game marker. The
marker still avoids the original fragile quest machinery:

- no original cauldron/wizard background ids are used as cauldrons/wizards;
- no collectable item slots are written;
- no original object-table quest records are duplicated;
- no inventory, charm-order, or cauldron state bytes are changed.

Instead, generated cauldron/charm anchor rooms use only static location-entry
fields that the project already controls:

- selector is forced to 0, producing a square room for the first safe visual
  proof;
- colour/attribute is overridden deterministically;
- foreground block runs are replaced with a fixed four-corner marker pattern;
- normal generated wall/arch backgrounds are still used for the final exits.

The first Phase B patterns are:

- cauldron room:
  - colour 1;
  - ordinary block type `0x00`;
  - block positions `(2,2,0)`, `(5,2,0)`, `(2,5,0)`, `(5,5,0)`;
- charm room:
  - colour 5;
  - spike block type `0x05`;
  - the same four positions.

These positions deliberately leave x=3..4 and y=3..4 clear, which keeps the
central approach lanes open for any cardinal entry side. This is stricter than
the old starting-room-only center rule, but only for the marker pattern itself:
ordinary generated non-start rooms are still allowed to place content away
from their actual entrance strips.

Manual validation on 2026 07 13 covered several sectors with full
cauldron-to-charm-and-back loops. A recorded example was sector `(0, -1)`:

    current room: (6, -8)
    cauldron:     (6, -8), local (6, 0)
    charm:        (0, -5), local (0, 3)
    required:     charm 12 (#12)
    reachability: OK, anchors CH, path 9, searched 42, margin 2 chunks

That recorded `charm 12` label came from the earlier 14-abstract-id diagnostic
model. Under the corrected seven-charm model it should be interpreted as the
corresponding original charm type modulo seven, not as a distinct twelfth
charm identity.

No reset, freeze, invalid retrieve_screen decode, or entry-side trapping was
observed. This marks Phase 8.2B complete as a practical play-test proof. It is
still not an exhaustive proof over the infinite map, but the marker rule is
coordinate-independent and uses the same compact-entry compiler path for every
sector.

Stage 8.2C starts Phase C as a deliberately narrow cauldron visual probe. It
does not yet inject collectable charms or use the original cauldron state
machine.

The probe is opt-in:

    ?stage8c=1
    ?stage82c=1

When enabled, the runtime restores the original cauldron background expansion
and makes generated quest cauldron anchor rooms append background id `0x13`:

- the original background offset table entries at `0x6D06` are restored so
  `0x12` points at the wizard background and `0x13` points at the cauldron
  background;
- the original cauldron background bytes at `0x6FBF..0x6FCF` are restored;
- generated quest cauldron rooms are forced to selector 0 and a calm colour;
- the Phase B four-corner block marker is suppressed for those rooms;
- the generated room still uses the normal wall/arch compiler for exits;
- no item slot, charm-order byte, inventory byte, wizard state, or original
  cauldron completion state is touched.

The original cauldron visual is two background records:

    0x8D cauldron body
    0x8E cauldron contents / stew

The attack bubbles are deliberately separate. The original bubble template
bytes at `0xB8C8..0xB8D9` remain zeroed by default, even with `?stage8c=1`.
They are restored only with the extra experimental flag:

    ?stage8cbubbles=1

That bubble flag should be treated as high risk until we understand how the
original wolf-form attack behaviour, live slots around `0x5C68`, and quest
state interact. For normal Phase 8.2C testing, use `?stage8c=1` without the
bubble flag.

Manual testing on 2026 07 13 confirmed that `?stage8cbubbles=1` restores a
global behaviour, not a cauldron-room-local one: bubbles appeared in every
room and kept the original wolf-killing behaviour. After death, respawn walked
through a coordinate sequence such as `(1,0)`, `(2,0)`, ... or `(0,-1)`,
`(0,-2)`, ..., while deaths at `(0,0)` respawned at `(0,0)`. Keep the flag off
until bubble activation can be gated per room or per live slot.

Stage 8.2C2 adds explicit bubble-template probe modes:

    ?stage8cbubbles=off        disabled / default
    ?stage8cbubbles=1          global high-risk control
    ?stage8cbubbles=global     same as 1
    ?stage8cbubbles=cauldron   cauldron-gated timing probe

If a URL accidentally repeats `stage8cbubbles`, the runtime uses the last
value and reports the full chain in diagnostics. For example:

    ?stage8cbubbles=1&stage8cbubbles=cauldron

is interpreted as the cauldron-gated probe, with a requested chain of
`1 -> cauldron`.

The cauldron-gated probe writes only the template at `0xB8C8..0xB8D9`:

- if the current logical center room has `questRole === "cauldron"`, restore
  the original template bytes;
- otherwise write zeros back over the template.

It deliberately does not clear or patch live/object bytes around `0x5C68`.
If bubbles still appear after leaving a cauldron room, that will mean the
engine has already copied or activated live bubble state and C2 needs a
separate live-slot cleanup probe.

The Stage 1 diagnostics table has a `Stage 8.2C2 bubble probe` row showing:

- requested mode;
- desired active/off state;
- template restored/zeroed/mixed readback;
- current logical room and quest role;
- number of gate writes;
- first bytes read from the live area around `0x5C68`.

Manual validation on 2026 07 17 passed:

- `?stage8cbubbles=cauldron` produced bubbles only in the current logical
  quest cauldron room;
- ordinary rooms and the origin `(0,0)` stayed bubble-free;
- the Stage 1 `Stage 8.2C2 bubble probe` row reported the expected desired
  active/off and template restored/zeroed states;
- bubbles were harmless in human form and retained the original wolf-killing
  behaviour.

Known non-blocking side effects:

- the bubble animation is very fast;
- the requested-charm flash is also very fast;
- after a bubble death, the player respawns in the room opposite the entry
  side. For example, entering the cauldron through the east door can respawn
  at the east door of the room west of the cauldron.

This marks C2 as successful for room-gated bubble-template activation. The
respawn displacement should be handled as a later death/respawn-state probe,
probably around current-room, entry-side, and transition-state working memory,
rather than as part of the static bubble-template gate.

Original Charm-Room Interiors
-----------------------------

Stage 8.4 C3.6 can replace the simple Phase B charm-room marker with an
interior copied from one of the original game's 32 `special_objs_tbl` rooms.
This mode is opt-in:

    ?stage84c36=1
    ?stage8originalcharmrooms=1

The compact catalogue lives in:

    SRC/runtime/knightlore-original-charm-rooms.js

It contains 32 templates and 385 packed foreground objects. The foreground
groups include both ordinary/static block arrangements and dynamic hazards or
moving objects. Each template also stores the XYZ position of the original
special-object record.

The architecture boundary is strict:

- the original template contributes foreground block groups and charm XYZ;
- generated room existence, cardinal exits, reciprocal connectivity, wall and
  arch backgrounds, theme, and physical ids remain authoritative;
- original background ids are not copied because the candidate-room
  backgrounds are architectural walls, arches, fillers, or high-arch pieces;
- original room id, exit mask, size selector, colour, and map coordinate are
  provenance only and do not control the generated room.

Selection is deterministic per quest sector:

    hash(worldSeed, sectorX, sectorY, 0xC4F0) % 32

The starting sector `(0,0)` is an explicit deterministic exception: it uses
original interior `0xB4`, selected as the easiest current first playable
charm-room proof. This changes only the template choice for that sector. All
other sectors continue to use the hash rule above.

Therefore a sector receives the same original interior after revisiting or
reloading, while repetitions remain expected across the unbounded map. The
logical label records the selected source, for example:

    quest-charm:3,0:0xB4:rock-vaults

Required-charm adjacency check, 2026 07 23:

- required charm types are selected independently from seven original charm
  identities by the sector-coordinate hash;
- a `257 x 257` scan covered 66,049 sectors and 131,584 horizontal/vertical
  adjacent pairs;
- 18,909 pairs requested the same charm, or 14.370%;
- the independent seven-way expectation is 1/7, or 14.286%;
- horizontal matches were 14.383% and vertical matches were 14.357%;
- the longest observed straight repeat was six sectors on either axis;
- a separate inner-grid measurement found 47.114% of sectors had at least one
  same-charm cardinal neighbour, close to the independent expectation 46.022%;
- matching triples occurred at 2.175%, close to the independent expectation
  1/49 = 2.041%.

Therefore adjacent sectors `(0,0)` and `(0,1)` both requesting the
chalice/vase is an ordinary deterministic coincidence, not evidence of a
directional or regional repetition rule. No anti-repeat constraint is applied:
repeated nearby requests are legal because a carried charm identity is global
and may be used at any matching cauldron.

With C3.1 enabled, the disposable quest charm uses the selected template's
original XYZ instead of the generic `(0x80,0x80,0x80)` position. Its sprite
still comes from the sector's required charm metadata, so the selected room
challenge and the cauldron/charm identity remain connected.

This combination is mechanically valid but not yet universally proven safe.
Original puzzles were composed around their original entrances, so a generated
door can occasionally face a blocking object. Manual testing must therefore
record the logical coordinate and original template id if an entrance is
blocked, or if a dynamic group causes a reset or freeze. The correct later fix
is a deterministic per-template entrance-clearance rule, not importing the
original exits.


Biome / Style Layer
-------------------

After topology is known, the generator assigns a deterministic style region.
This is not a modern graphics biome and it does not add a renderer. It is a
room-dressing policy that still compiles into original Knight Lore compact
location data.

Style regions are based on chunk coordinates:

    styleRegionChunks: 2

With the current 8x8 chunk size, one style region covers a 16x16 logical-room
area. This is intentionally close to the original Knight Lore map footprint,
so a player can feel a region before wandering into another one.

Current generated styles:

    stone-halls
    wooden-wing
    rock-vaults
    quiet-gallery
    spike-yard

Styles currently influence:

- generated room label and title;
- procedural metadata;
- room colour;
- stone versus tree theme for square rooms;
- simple foreground block type;
- simple foreground block count.

The origin and its four cardinal neighbours are forced to stone-halls. This
keeps the starting cross calm and avoids making first-load testing depend on a
hazard-heavy style roll.

The current style layer is conservative:

- rectangular rooms have no procedural block runs;
- wooden/tree rectangular rooms are experimental: Stage 7 installs custom
  tree-wall background records in the unused tail of the erased location table
  and uses runtime ids 0x16/0x17 for them, while tree arch ids 0x04..0x07
  provide the legal narrow-side exits; the custom wall records keep only source
  records already at Z/base byte 0x80 and discard raised stone layers; the
  long doorless side is filled by replacing the stone-derived ground wall
  records with full 8-row square-tree wall patterns translated to x=0x5F
  for selector 1 and y=0xA0 for selector 2;
- square wooden/tree output still uses original-derived safe square tree
  background patterns, otherwise it falls back to stone backgrounds;
- spike-yard uses original static spike block type 0x05, not moving enemies;
- no dynamic objects or item tables are emitted by the generator yet.

This means the style layer gives the infinite map visible character without
changing the renderer or depending on still-unfinished object/item persistence.


Room Existence and Exits
------------------------

For an existing generated room, exits are derived from neighbouring room
existence:

    east exit exists if room(x + 1, y) exists

and similarly for north, south, and west.

This makes generated-to-generated exits reciprocal by construction. If the
current room has an east exit, the eastern neighbour has a west exit.

For a missing generated room, the returned payload is a closed wall-only room:

- selector 0;
- colour 0;
- stone theme;
- no exits;
- no blocks;
- meta.procedural.exists = false.

The missing-room payload is useful for diagnostics and safety checks, but the
sliding cross should not open a door into it.


Rectangular Room Selection
--------------------------

Knight Lore has three confirmed room size selectors:

    selector 0: 64, 64, 128  square room
    selector 1: 32, 64, 128  rectangular room
    selector 2: 64, 32, 128  rectangular room

Rectangular rooms may only have entrances on the smaller sides:

    selector 1 allows north/south-side exits
    selector 2 allows east/west-side exits

The generator therefore treats only these masks as rectangular candidates:

    N, S, NS -> selector 1 candidate
    E, W, EW -> selector 2 candidate

These masks are never rectangular:

    corners, T-junctions, four-way rooms

Even legal candidates are not always rectangular. The generator applies a
deterministic coordinate hash and compares it with rectangularCandidatePercent.
If the candidate does not pass the throttle, it falls back to a square room
with the same doors.

This is deliberate. The original game has some square rooms with straight or
single-side exits, so using rectangles for every legal candidate would overdo
the effect.


Generated Room Payloads
-----------------------

Existing generated rooms return a logical room definition with:

- coord;
- label of the form generated:biome-id:x,y;
- title of the form Biome title x,y;
- size selector;
- colour;
- theme;
- exits;
- blocks;
- objects;
- items;
- procedural metadata.

Current rectangular generated rooms are conservative:

- no procedural blocks;
- no long-side doors.

Wooden-wing rectangular rooms are an experimental extension. They combine the
original rectangular wall geometry with tree wall sprites in custom background
records, plus tree arch ids on legal exits. This keeps the shape valid while
making wooden regions visually more coherent, but it is not a combination
observed in the original 1984 room set.

The current Stage 7 rectangular tree-wall patch uses two custom background ids
installed at runtime:

    0x16 custom tree wall size 2 -> selector 2, 64x32 rooms
    0x17 custom tree wall size 3 -> selector 1, 32x64 rooms

In the original background table, ids 0x16 and 0x17 are high-arch base
entries. The current generated map does not rely on those high-arch-base
backgrounds, so the runtime can reuse the ids for custom rectangular tree
walls while keeping 0x12 and 0x13 available for the original wizard and
cauldron backgrounds.

For selector 1 rooms, custom 0x17 replaces the stone-derived west-wall records
with the full original square-tree west-wall sequence translated to x=0x5F:

    0x80 0x5F 0x49 0x80 0x00 0x08 0x2C 0x10
    0x81 0x5F 0x58 0x80 0x00 0x08 0x2C 0x10
    0x82 0x5F 0x68 0x80 0x00 0x08 0x2C 0x10
    0x80 0x5F 0x78 0x80 0x00 0x08 0x2C 0x10
    0x81 0x5F 0x88 0x80 0x00 0x08 0x2C 0x10
    0x80 0x5F 0x98 0x80 0x00 0x08 0x2C 0x10
    0x81 0x5F 0xA8 0x80 0x00 0x08 0x2C 0x10
    0x82 0x5F 0xB8 0x80 0x00 0x08 0x2C 0x10

For selector 2 rooms, custom 0x16 replaces the stone-derived north-wall records
with the full original square-tree north-wall sequence translated to y=0xA0:

    0x80 0x48 0xA0 0x80 0x08 0x00 0x2C 0x50
    0x81 0x58 0xA0 0x80 0x08 0x00 0x2C 0x50
    0x82 0x68 0xA0 0x80 0x08 0x00 0x2C 0x50
    0x80 0x78 0xA0 0x80 0x08 0x00 0x2C 0x50
    0x81 0x88 0xA0 0x80 0x08 0x00 0x2C 0x50
    0x80 0x98 0xA0 0x80 0x08 0x00 0x2C 0x50
    0x81 0xA8 0xA0 0x80 0x08 0x00 0x2C 0x50
    0x82 0xB8 0xA0 0x80 0x08 0x00 0x2C 0x50

This was found empirically. Partial filler-only patterns left holes, lowering
raised source records could cover exits, and hand-filled records caused
unstable emulator/player behaviour. Replacing the matching ground wall records
with these full translated original-derived patterns is the current safe rule.

Current square generated rooms may be stone or wooden, depending on their
style region and safe background availability. They receive a small
deterministic block run:

- stone-halls use rock block type 0x03;
- wooden-wing uses block type 0x00;
- rock-vaults use more rock block type 0x03;
- quiet-gallery uses fewer rock blocks;
- spike-yard uses spike block type 0x05;
- block positions avoid the central floor cells x=3..4, y=3..4.

The center-clearance rule avoids trapping the player immediately in the
starting room or in a generated room that later becomes the logical origin for
a test.


Runtime Integration
-------------------

The generator is used by the logical map facade in:

    SRC/runtime/knightlore.js

Lookup order:

1. If an authored JSON room exists at the coordinate, use it.
2. Otherwise, ask createKnightLoreProceduralMap().getRoomDefinition(x, y).
3. Cache the generated result for stable diagnostics and persistent state.

Before writing the physical five-room cross, Stage 7 applies a reciprocal-exit
overlay. This overlay does not modify the source logical room. It only changes
the compiled physical payload when needed.

Important overlay rules:

- generated-to-generated exits should already be reciprocal;
- authored exits can be mirrored if both room shapes allow the door;
- generated rooms do not automatically reopen authored map edges;
- if a room shape cannot legally host a door direction, that compiled pair is
  closed instead of emitting an invalid rectangular-room door.

Game-over integration:

- ordinary deaths are corrected in place by the C3.5e same-room guard;
- the original final-life signal is the signed lives-byte transition
  `0x00 -> 0xFF`, not `0x01 -> 0x00`;
- C3.5f responds by setting the logical center to `(0,0)` and recompiling the
  physical cross around the origin before the next game starts;
- both active room ids and all four original start-location choices are
  reasserted as physical `0x88`;
- original new-game code remains responsible for player XYZ;
- generated-room and quest persistence remain deterministic and are not
  discarded by this runtime center reset.
- the missed-underflow refill fallback is armed only after active play and a
  later zero-life state have both been observed, excluding first startup.
- C3.1 static object record 31 is forcibly made inactive before restart
  initialization. This is required even when the old game still marks it as
  carried: original `init_special_objects` copies every record's physical start
  room to its current room, and stale start room `0x88` would otherwise appear
  at the new logical origin.
- A second record-31 cleanup waits for lives `0x04`, after the original
  initialization has randomized the record sprite. Both room fields remain
  `0xFF`; no charm is allowed to appear unless the current Stage 7 cross
  actually contains a logical charm room.
- Manual restart confirmation observed two cleanup writes and converted
  randomized sprite `0x62` to inactive `0x00` while retaining both room fields
  as `0xFF`. Logical origin `(0,0)` remained charm-free.


Measured Behaviour
------------------

The original dump currently reports:

    occupied cells: 128 / 256 = 50%
    rectangular rooms: 58 / 128 = 45.31%

The current generator was checked over large coordinate samples and tuned to
land close to those values. A representative sample produced:

    generated occupied cells: about 49.84%
    generated rectangular rooms: about 45.12%

The exact local ratio varies slightly by sampled coordinate window, but it is
now close enough that rectangular rooms should appear regularly during normal
walking.


Verification Invariants
-----------------------

The generator should keep these invariants:

- origin and four cardinal neighbours exist;
- generated exits are reciprocal;
- missing cells do not expose exits;
- selector 1 rooms only use N, S, or NS exits;
- selector 2 rooms only use E, W, or EW exits;
- rectangular generated rooms have no procedural block runs;
- no generated block appears on central floor cells x=3..4, y=3..4;
- an inner sampled window is reachable from the origin when using a larger
  outer margin for the search.

These invariants are checked with ad hoc Node probes during development and
should eventually become automated tests.


Known Limits and Future Work
----------------------------

The current generator is a topology and room-shape provider, not a full content
director.

Open future work:

- richer hazard placement;
- treasure placement;
- authored special-room injection;
- biome/style zones;
- persistent item/object state across revisits;
- more original rectangular-room background patterns;
- automated invariant tests.

The algorithm is intentionally conservative where Knight Lore data fragility is
known. When a room shape cannot be represented safely, the correct fallback is
a square room with the corresponding doors.
